# Forces Generated by SLCD's, Nuts, Tricams

This project was prompted by a question from Ryan Jenks of HowNot2:

> "How much outward force does a cam put on the rock? Does it change if it's over cammed vs tipped out? What happens when you pull over an edge? How different is it vs a nut vs a tricam? How much force does a cam hook put on the rock? In general, this is interesting, if you come across a fragile flake, then it matters.

> After 3 years, we are finally getting to test the outward force of gear. While we make final adjustments to our latest jib/adapter for our pull tester, let's get a baseline on what to expect. How much force does math say we should get on the rock if you pull down 2kn on a cam, nut, tri-cam? Assume parallel sides for cams and tricams. Assume a 20 degree angle for a nut.

> Let's start this discussion here in Discord because we have another important step designing the experiment after we set the baseline of what we hypothesize."

### Progress So Far

- **`Camming_Forces.ipynb`** a Jupyter Lab file, computes a baseline expected force for a basic SLCD. Also in [HTML](./camming_forces.html) and [PDF](./camming_forces.pdf) formats. 

- **`Triangular_cam_forces.ipynb`** another Jupyter Lab file, computes some forces for a triangular shaped cam attempting to approximate a Tricam, with some big assumptions. Also in [HTML](./triangular_cam_forces.html)

- **References:** A [REFERENCE.md](./REFERENCE.md) hold links and other reference materials that folks have already shared. Please add stuff.

